

1. Do you think that in a phylogenetic tree the parasites that use
similar hosts will group together?

Yes. It would make sense that resistance adapted as an evolutionary cluster. 


2. With the new genome file, make a gene prediction. You will probably still have
some scaffolds that derive from the bird. These should be short. Why?

Short scaffolds could be misrepresenting the bird GC content (more so than long scaffolds).
These could be assembled from poor coverage reads.

3. Insert the missing data in the above table. Use bash, not internet!


4. Compare the genome sizes with other eukaryotes and bacteria.
Discuss with your partner (that is student partner) the reason
for the observed genome sizes.


5. What may cause the biased GC-contents in some of the species?



6. What does the curly braces notation stand for?



7. Compare how many BUSCOs (orthologues proteins) that are
found in each proteome. Do the investigated parasites have close
to complete numbers of BUSCOs?



8. Do you think that the assembly of the Haemoproteus tartakowskyi genome is a reasonable approximation of the true
genome?



9. How many of the BUSCOs are found in all eight organisms?



10. If Toxoplasma is removed, how many BUSCOs are shared among the remaining seven species. Interpret!


11. Does all protein trees reflect the “true’ ’ species tree?

12. What is the phylogenetic position of Plasmodium falciparum?

13. Do you think that the GC contents have an impact on the tree
topology?

14. Do you think that the host range has an impact on the tree
topology?

15. Are the BUSCO proteins also found as orthologs in the
proteinortho output?

16. Make a script that concatenates the alignments for each organism and BUSCO into one fasta file that in the end should contain
seven sequences. Alternatively, use bash.

17. Make a tree of this “superalignment’ ’. Does it correspond to the
consense tree?

18. Run Gblocks on your BUSCO alignments.

19. Compare the indel tree with the two in the earlier exercises.

20. Compare your results with the published study found at the
course web server, directory Articles.